First we will start by downloading the data. Copy the following command into your terminal.

# Step 0. Downloading the data and map file.

```text
wget ftp://ftp.microbio.me/qiime/tutorial_files/moving_pictures_tutorial-1.9.0.tgz || curl -O ftp://ftp.microbio.me/qiime/tutorial_files/moving_pictures_tutorial-1.9.0.tgz
tar -xzf moving_pictures_tutorial-1.9.0.tgz
```

Now we will change directory into the correct folder.

```text
cd moving_pictures_tutorial-1.9.0/
cd illumina/
```
# Step 1. Checking the mapping files for errors

The QIIME mapping file contains all of the per-sample metadata, including technical information such as primers and barcodes that were used for each sample, and information about the samples, including what body site they were taken from. In this data set we're looking at human microbiome samples from four sites on the bodies of two individuals at mutliple time points. The metadata in this case therefore includes a subject identifier, a timepoint, and a body site for each sample. You can review the map.tsv file at the link in the previous cell to see an example of the data (or view the published Google Spreadsheet version, which is more nicely formatted).

In this step, we run validate_mapping_file.py to ensure that our mapping file is compatible with QIIME.

```text
validate_mapping_file.py -o vmf-map/ -m map.tsv
```

In this case there were no errors, but if there were we would review the resulting HTML summary to find out what errors are present. You could then fix those in a spreadsheet program or text editor and rerun validate_mapping_file.py on the updated mapping file.

For the sake of illustrating what errors in a mapping file might look like, we've created a bad mapping file (map-bad.tsv). We'll next call validate_mapping_file.py on the file map-bad.tsv. Review the resulting HTML report. What are the issues with this mapping file?

```text
validate_mapping_file.py -o vmf-map-bad/ -m map-bad.tsv
```

# Step 2. Demultiplexing and quality filtering sequences

We next need to demultiplex and quality filter our sequences (i.e. assigning barcoded reads to the samples they are derived from). In general, you should get separate fastq files for your sequence and barcode reads. Note that we pass these files while still gzipped. split_libraries_fastq.py can handle gzipped or unzipped fastq files. The default strategy in QIIME for quality filtering of Illumina data is described in Bokulich et al (2013).

```text
split_libraries_fastq.py -o slout/ -i forward_reads.fastq.gz -b barcodes.fastq.gz -m map.tsv
```

We can see how many sequences we ended up with using count_seqs.py.

```text
count_seqs.py -i slout/seqs.fna
```
# Step 3. OTU picking: using an open-reference OTU picking protocol by searching reads against the Greengenes database.

Now that we have demultiplexed sequences, we're ready to cluster these sequences into OTUs. There are three high-level ways to do this in QIIME. We can use de novo, closed-reference, or open-reference OTU picking. Open-reference OTU picking is currently our preferred method. Discussion of these methods can be found in Rideout et. al (2014).

Here we apply open-reference OTU picking. Note that this command takes the seqs.fna file that was generated in the previous step. We're also specifying some parameters to the pick_otus.py command, which is internal to this workflow. Specifically, we set enable_rev_strand_match to True, which allows sequences to match the reference database if either their forward or reverse orientation matches to a reference sequence. This parameter is specified in the parameters file which is passed as -p. You can find information on defining parameters files here.

**This step can take about 10 minutes to complete.**

```text
pick_open_reference_otus.py -o otus/ -i slout/seqs.fna -p ../uc_fast_params.txt
```

The primary output that we get from this command is the OTU table, or the number of times each operational taxonomic unit (OTU) is observed in each sample. QIIME uses the Genomics Standards Consortium Biological Observation Matrix standard (BIOM) format for representing OTU tables. You can find additional information on the BIOM format here, and information on converting these files to tab-separated text that can be viewed in spreadsheet programs here. Several OTU tables are generated by this command. The one we typically want to work with is otus/otu_table_mc2_w_tax_no_pynast_failures.biom. This has singleton OTUs (or OTUs with a total count of 1) removed, as well as OTUs whose representative (i.e., centroid) sequence couldn't be aligned with PyNAST. It also contains taxonomic assignments for each OTU as observation metadata.

The open-reference OTU picking command also produces a phylogenetic tree where the tips are the OTUs. The file containing the tree is otus/rep_set.tre, and is the file that should be used with otus/otu_table_mc2_w_tax_no_pynast_failures.biom in downstream phylogenetic diversity calculations. The tree is stored in the widely used newick format.

To view the output of this command, call FileLink on the index.html file in the output directory.

To compute some summary statistics of the OTU table we can run the following command.

```text
biom summarize-table -i otus/otu_table_mc2_w_tax_no_pynast_failures.biom
```

The key piece of information you need to pull from this output is the depth of sequencing that should be used in diversity analyses. Many of the analyses that follow require that there are an equal number of sequences in each sample, so you need to review the Counts/sample detail and decide what depth you'd like. Any samples that don't have at least that many sequences will not be included in the analyses, so this is always a trade-off between the number of sequences you throw away and the number of samples you throw away. For some perspective on this, see Kuczynski 2010.

# Step 4. Run diversity analyses

Here we're running the core_diversity_analyses.py script which applies many of the "first-pass" diversity analyses that users are generally interested in. The main output that users will interact with is the index.html file, which provides links into the different analysis results.

Note that in this step we're passing -e which is the sampling depth that should be used for diversity analyses. I chose 1114 here, based on reviewing the above output from biom summarize-table. This value will be study-specific, so don't just use this value on your own data (though it's fine to use that value for this tutorial).

*The commands in this section (combined) can take about 15 minutes to complete.*

You may see a RuntimeWarning generated by this command. As the warning indicates, it's not something that you should be concerned about in this case. QIIME (and scikit-bio, which implements a lot of QIIME's core functionality) will sometimes provide these types of warnings to help you figure out if your analyses are valid, but you should always be thinking about whether a particular test or analysis is relevant for your data. Just because something can be passed as input to a QIIME script, doesn't necessarily mean that the analysis it performs is appropriate.

```text
core_diversity_analyses.py -o cdout/ -i otus/otu_table_mc2_w_tax_no_pynast_failures.biom -m map.tsv -t otus/rep_set.tre -e 1114
```

Next open the index.html file in the resulting directory. This will link you into the different results.

The results above treat all samples independently, but sometimes (for example, in the taxonomic summaries) it's useful to categorize samples by their metadata. We can do this by passing categories (i.e., headers from our mapping file) to core_diversity_analyses.py with the -c parameter. Because core_diversity_analyses.py can take a long time to run, it has a --recover_from_failure option, which can allow it to be rerun from a point where it previously failed in some cases (for example, if you accidentally turned your computer off while it was running). This option can also be used to add categorical analyses if you didn't include them in your initial run. Next we'll rerun core_diversity_analyses.py with two sets of categorical analyses: one for the "SampleType category, and one for the DaysSinceExperimentStart category. Remember the --recover_from_failure option: it can save you a lot of time.

```text
core_diversity_analyses.py -o cdout/ --recover_from_failure -c "SampleType,DaysSinceExperimentStart" -i otus/otu_table_mc2_w_tax_no_pynast_failures.biom -m map.tsv -t otus/rep_set.tre -e 1114
```

# Step 5. Downtream analysis using Emperor

One thing you may notice in the PCoA plots generated by core_diversity_analyses.py is that the samples don't cluster perfectly by SampleType. This is unexpected, based on what we know about the human microbiome. Since this is a time series, let's explore this in a little more detail integrating a time axis into our PCoA plots. We can do this by re-running Emperor directly, replacing our previously generated PCoA plots. (Emperor is a tool for the visualization of PCoA plots with many advanced features that you can explore in the Emperor tutorial. If you use Emperor in your research you should be sure to cite it directly, as with the other tools that QIIME wraps, such as uclust and RDPClassifier.)

After this runs, you can reload the Emperor plots that you accessed from the above cdout/index.html links. Try making the samples taken during AntibioticUsage invisible.

```text
make_emperor.py -i cdout/bdiv_even1114/weighted_unifrac_pc.txt -o cdout/bdiv_even1114/weighted_unifrac_emperor_pcoa_plot -m map.tsv --custom_axes DaysSinceExperimentStart 
make_emperor.py -i cdout/bdiv_even1114/unweighted_unifrac_pc.txt -o cdout/bdiv_even1114/unweighted_unifrac_emperor_pcoa_plot -m map.tsv --custom_axes DaysSinceExperimentStart
```

IMPORTANT: Removing points from a PCoA plot, as is suggested above for data exploration purposes, is not the same as computing PCoA without those points. If after running this, you'd like to remove the samples taken during AntibioticUsage from the analysis, you can do this with filter_samples_from_otus_table.py, which is discussed here. As an exercise, try removing the samples taken during AntibioticUsage from the OTU table and re-running core_diversity_analyses.py. You should output the results to a different directory than you created above (e.g., cdout_no_abx).

# Take biom file to Kronas

* Take the biom file generated in step 3 and convert it to a text file.
* Convert to tab delimited file.
* Run with Kronas script and generate this link: INSERT LINK HERE
